---
sort: 2
---
# Motivation

With the rapid development of heterogeneous systems, the traditional hardware development methods require innovations. On the one hand, agile hardware development becomes more critical in developing system-on-chips (SoCs) due to its short development cycles and fast prototyping fea-tures. On the other hand, traditional hardware description languages (HDLs) lack productivity and efﬁciency to develop heterogeneous systems. Moreover, there is a significant methodology gap between the current main-stream hardware design and verification tools. In this paper, we introduce PyChip, a novel Python-based full-stack hardware development framework. PyChip includes PyHCL for circuit construction and PyUVM for design verification. To achieve agile hardware development, PyHCL provides a clean and precise interface for developers to rapidly design hardware cir-cuits. PyUVM provides three verification approaches for various verifica-tion levels and strategies, including the capabilities for universal verifica-tion methodology (UVM). Besides, we built a multi-level verification envi-ronment based on the UVM feature provided by PyUVM, which supports the gray-box verification strategy and remains outstanding simulation per-formance and high reusability. The implementation and simulation results show that PyChip has excellent hardware development efficiency and per-formance. The PyHCL implementations have a 69% code density reduction compare to the hand-written Verilog code on average. The two combina-tional verification approaches provided by the multi-level verification en-vironment have 63% and 40% improvement of simulation performance compared to the single approaches, respectively.
